Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture on breath first search algorithm or CFS.
So in this lecture we're going to get an overview of that DFS algorithm and we're going to continue
to build off that example of that word ladder problem.
So what we want to know now is how can we find the shortest solution to the word ladder problem.
We were able to build out that graph efficiently using That bucket's method.
But now we want to do is actually find the solution to it as we traverse the graph or go through the
graph.
The graph algorithm we're going to use is called breath's first search algorithm or B-F us.
So one of the easy algorithms for searching a graph.
It also serves as a prototype for several other important graph algorithms that we're going to study
later.
Of course as an extra resource there's an MIT algorithms and data structures course it's part of MIT
Open Courseware.
And I encourage you to check it out.
Here's the link so you can go to the resource section.
Download this presentation or just copy and paste this link into YouTube.
And I think you'll be really surprised at how well you can follow along.
Given that you're going straight into the middle of an MIT data structures and algorithms course pretty
much you can jump right in.
We've covered a lot and I encourage you to really use this course as an extra resource for understanding
algorithms and data structures.
Just keep in mind that it's really more on the theory in more basic computer science ideas.
Well in this course we try to emphasize which ideas are important for interview situations so just keep
that in mind.
It's a really great resource.
I definitely encourage you to check it out.
They have the whole playlist and you can also check out additional homework assignments that go along
with that on MIT Open Courseware.
Again it's a great resource and you can jump right in.
You'll really notice how you can understand already everything that they've been talking about.
Even though this is basically halfway through their semester.
OK.
Moving along.
Let's talk about B.
Yes.
So give given a graph G and a starting vertex s what the b fs algorithm does it Prissie's by exploring
the edges in the graph to find all the vertices and G for which there is a path from S.
The remarkable thing about the DFS algorithm is that it finds all the vertices that are at distance
K from S before it finds any vertices or distance K plus 1.
So one good way to visualize what the FS algorithm is doing is to imagine that it's building a tree
one level of the tree at a time.
And what the DFS algorithm does adds all the children of the starting vertex before it begins to discover
any of the grandchildren
as we go along and explain the FS algorithm and the example code.
We're going to keep track of its progress through coloring so be a fast going to color all the vertices
white gray or black all the vertices are initialized to white when they are constructed a white vertex
is an undiscovered for Tex.
So as you go through digraph if it's white it means we haven't discovered it yet.
When a vertex is initially discovered it's colored grey and want to be EF-S has completely explored
a vertex then its color black.
This means that once a vertexes colored black it has no white vertices adjacent to it.
A green note on the other hand may have some white vertices adjacent to it.
In the cane that there's still additional vertices to explore and we'll actually see this basically
diagrammed out later on this lecture.
So what the first does it begins at the starting vertex s and colors start Gray to show that it's currently
being explored to other values the distance and the predecessor are initialized to zero and then none
respectively for the starting of vertex.
And then finally star is placed on a Q data structure.
The next step is to begin systematically exploring the vertices at the front of the queue.
So then what we do is we explore each new node at the front of the queue but iterating over its adjacency
list as each node on the adjacency list is Examinates colors check if it's white.
The vertex is an explore and therefore things are going to happen if the vertex is explored.
We have four things that are going to happen.
The new unexplored vertex which will call and B.R. for neighbor is then colored grey.
The predecessor of neighbour is set to the current node current Virts or current vertex the distance
the neighbour is set to the distance to the current vertex Plus once he had to go an additional edge
and then the neighbors added to the end of the queue adding Nehru's the end of the queue effectively
schedule's this node for further exploration but not until all the other vertices on the adjacency list
of that current vertex have been explored.
So let's take a quick look at what some example code may look like.
So you have a new unexplored vertex and B.R. that could be colored.
So we'll start from the very beginning.
Here we have the FS.
It takes on a graph and a start.
You can say starts at distance or set predecessor and we'll look at that those are just additional methods
on the vertex that we're using to essentially visualize what the FS is doing.
So we begin at the starting vertex s and then the colors start Gray to show that it's currently being
explored then the two other values the distance and the predecessor have been initialized to 0 and none
respectively for the starting vertex.
And then finally the start is placed on a queue.
So you have start in queue over here.
The next step is to begin to systematically explore the vertices at the front of the queue.
We explore each node at the front of the queue but iterating over its adjacency list as each node on
the adjacency list is examen.
It's colour's checked.
Then if it's white which happens at this step we do a couple of things.
The new unexplored vertex neighbor is colored grey.
So he set color gray.
The predecessor of neighbor is set to the current node.
This is the neighbor sets the distance of the current note plus 1 and then the neighbor's added to the
end of the queue again by adding neighbor to the end of the queue.
You've effectively scheduled this note for further exploration but not until all the other vertices
on the adjacency list of the current verdict's Virtex have been explored.
So this is just a quick example code.
I know we didn't actually go and create any.
A few of these methods but just keep in mind it's just to help you out what the code would look like
for the diagram an explanation we're about to see.
So now let's take a look at how that DFS function would construct the basically the breadth first search
tree corresponding to the graph here.
So we're going to do is start from Fool and take all the nodes adjacent to fool and add them to the
tree.
So if we go ahead and visualize that we start Riffel take all the notes that are adjacent to fool and
add them to a tree the adjacent notes here include pool foul foul and cool or foil.
Excuse me so pool foil fouling cool.
Each of these notes are added to the cue of the new nodes to expand.
So here you have a cue of the new nodes to expand.
So here we are on the in-progress tree along with the key after this that in the next step what the
FS does is it removes the next node which is pool in this case from that front of the queue and repeats
the process for all of its adjacent nodes.
However when DFS examines the node cool it finds that the color of cool has already been changed to
great this in the case that there's a shorter path to cool and that cool is already on the queue.
Further exploration the only new node added to the queue while examining pool is in pole p o l l in
a new state of the tree and Q is then shown here and what may be helpful is to open up the graph picture
and see it along as we go through the first search.
But after this this is the second step.
Basically the next vertex on the queue is foil.
F O I L.
So what does that mean.
That means the only way you know that foil can add to the tree is fail.
F A I L and as we fast continue to process the Q.
Neither of the next two nodes adds anything new to the Q or the tree.
So here this figure we see the tree in the q after expanding all the vertices on the second level of
the tree.
So now I want to encourage you to do is continue to work through that algorithm on your own so that
your country will with how it works.
So you should really be doing now is definitely checking out that MIT video I linked earlier and then
trying to see if you can continue with this algorithm until you get to Sage and what it should look
like.
Is this figure right here.
So I encourage you to take this figure and see if just basically mentally you can build this out as
your path as you construct the tree in your mind using b fs and if you want further explanation of the
FS then you can definitely reference that video.
That image at the beginning of the lecture.
So it's a bit of a complicated topic to formally write out but the idea is actually kind of simple.
So let's quickly recap what the FS is actually doing.
It starts at a vertex s and then if we go ahead and jump to that coatless thing.
So here we take n g and a start.
So we start at a vertex and then we're going to do in color that start variable Gray to show that it's
currently being explored.
So we have three colors here gray white and black.
All the vertices are initialized to white.
When they're constructed so that means a white vertex is an undiscovered vertex.
When a vertex is initially discovered it's colored grey and then one of the FS has completely explored
that vertex than its color black and again once a vertex is colored black has no white vertices adjacent
to it.
And then the great node on the other hand may have some white vertices adjacent to it indicating that
there are still some additional vertices to explore and so in this coding list the distance and predecessor
are initialized to zero and none for that starting vertex.
And then we place that start vertex on the Q then the next steps begin to systematically explore the
vertices at the front of the queue.
Now we explore each new note at the front of the queue by iterating over its adjacency list.
So again refer to the adjacency list lecture for what it's actually happening when we iterate over it
.
But basically as each note on the adjacency list is examined we're going to check its color if it's
white.
That means that vertex unexplored and four things are going to happen that new unexplored vertex is
then colored grey because we're there now.
The predecessor of that Vertex that NBER that neighbor is set to the current node which is the current
Virts or current vertex variable that distance the neighbor is set to the distance of the current vertex
plus 1 and the neighbors added to the end of the queue by adding neighbor to the end of the queue we've
effectively scheduled that node for further exploration but not until all the other vertices in the
adjacency list of that current Virtex have been explored.
That way if we reach the end or the target we'll reach it first.
So what's the amazing thing about the first search solution is that not only we've solved the fool to
Saige problem so given that graph find that path but we've actually solved many other problems along
the way.
Now we can start at any vertex in the first search tree and follow the predecessor arrows back to the
root to find the shortest word ladder from any word back to fool.
So up next is the knight's path problem and that's going to be our introduction problem to depth first
search or DFS.
So what should you do.
Now you should definitely go through the MIT lecture listen to it.
It's about 40 minutes long.
So it is quite a time commitment but you'll be able to jump right in.
Understand what they're talking about and get a chance to see how this topic is taught and basically
the best technical university in the world and you'll be surprised at how will you be able to jump in
and you'll know pretty much all the terms that we're talking about as well as the notation.
Then once you're done watching that come take a look through the presentation and make sure you really
understand the FS and see if you can follow through those diagrams.
OK.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture where we discuss that night's paff problem and
get an introduction to DFS or that first search.
Thanks.
I'll see at the next lecture